welcome everyone to this week's IPL
decent call it's August the 5th 2019 and
let's see what we have so Oh first of
all is there any volunteer for taking
notes thanks rod it would also be cool
if at one point someone else and I take
notes preps
but that's something for next week so we
start with going through on updates and
what we did and things we plan to do so
I'm the first one I should start with it
so I found out that there is a registry
for seaboard hags and we use for SIBO we
use tag
42 for C IDs and it's already taken back
when it was decided to use this taken
wasn't taken now it is and we've opened
an issue on the repository of the people
have registered the tag and yeah we're
currently discussing and we hope that so
the hope is that we might be able to get
this tag for our stuff but we'll see and
then I did a bunch of fun stuff in the
JSI poly world and updated and LD take
pearl called buffer and chase I Conley
and released it then I also opportunity
to the exhibits
to use those Reese's those were also
already missed by Alex so now the only
missing thing is updated in case
activist which sounds simple but isn't
because we use a new version of ipfs
repo which is now using a base in Kuwait
instead of comics and so this needs to
go through all the code base and a lot
of ipfs stuff is using IPS s repo even
in the p2p does so this is a bit of a
bigger work but I hope to finish it soon
and yeah and then I will I'm hopefully
done for a long time with JavaScript
and can move on to the roster all right
that's all I have next one is Eric so I
got some new information from some of
the other ipfs nodes running in the wild
this last week about performance stuff
and getting a bunch of paper off files
dumped from production let me identify
some bottlenecks that were previously
not so obvious in some of the refund
code and the older generation of I
peeled the interfaces so I've learned a
lot of things about reading assembly
output for the go compiler in this week
and now there are some nice performance
improvements so those were all over in
the reformed libraries but the refund
Seaboard parser is still what's being
used to go IPL B prime as well so those
basically just instantly applied for
free because they're trans lives so
those are nice to have under the belt we
I think all of us did a lot of work in
the last week on PR is to specs
documents about like basic principle
stuff as well and I think there's still
like three or four or so some minor some
not so minor alterations that are
proposed to that right now
which I think we should probably do a
bunch of possibly synchronized review
time on after this it's I'm really glad
that we've started doing some of that
I'd also love some like land to them
sooner than later because they're just
so important so yep that's it for me
thanks
and next one is rot there's my audio am
I on
yep so I've been a go programmer this
past week got the hashmap partially
implemented on top of go at building
prime so far I'm I can iterate over all
the the key values you know in an
existing hash map data structure having
quite wired up the bit where you go to a
particular one but getting to it but
learning a lot about the way that Eric's
done his eye peeled the implementation
and I'm trying to figure out how to
adapt to that also getting my head
around some of the challenges that go
programmers are bringing to the
discussions were having so it's it's you
know I had a moment last week where I
had to click in my head with some of
these discussions started to make a
little bit more sense not but not that
they're nonsensical but they you know
they're there's this there's baggage
that we all bring and I could sort of
see the pain that you go programmers are
bringing to the discussion so that's
that's interesting as I had it's like
yesterday looking at portability of a
large test fixture data for testing
across languages I want to do language
independent test fixtures that can that
we can do the same assertions on in
tests in multiple languages so and
that's for complex style and not just
these trivial little things that we tend
to build for unit tests so yeah that's
in some experiments there and also some
experiments with them just graph
filtering and storage stuff so that's
that's it for me thanks next one it's
Michael
my notes here okay yeah so I've been off
for a few weeks for vacation but right
before that we did have the okay our
review call which was much more just
kind of a general project that you call
so went over with a lot of people sort
of where we're going and recently I've
been sharing that feedback with
different individuals and also working a
lot of that into some upcoming stuff
that we're doing so one is a sort of
rebooting the the some of the UNIX FS
conversations we have like a bucket
called UNIX 52 that a lot of things have
been dumped in for a long time and one
thing that I realized recently is that
some of those have very different
priority than others and some of them
could be done as in 51 some could be
worked into you know a mid version of
UNIX at sp2 if we if we if we know that
we're gonna sign up for another update
at some point in the future we could do
something in the interim that was
actually pretty good performance but it
all depends on sort of what the
priorities are of all these individual
items so I've done the work of breaking
all that about linking to a lot of the
history for all of those and put that
into a markdown document that I shared
out that we'll be going through in
meeting on Thursday with the ipfs folks
to try and get really distinct
priorities and understanding and it
should be individual issues so that we
can then figure out what the best plan
of attack is also there's this project
Advisory Committee thing that we've been
setting up we I think eventually we're
gonna have them across all the protocol
house projects but I think we're up I'm
do I'm accelerating the timeline for
ours because there's it's a good way to
gather feedback from other projects and
we need to start doing that a little bit
more of a holistic web so the first
meetings actually next weeks I've been
preparing all the agenda for that so if
any of you all have things that you want
to have surfaced from other projects or
questions you would like to ask about
projects let me know about that this
week I've also test a few people with
just some items for that agenda that I
can't write up myself because it's the
projects and y'all are working on and
not me
and then the last time I'll talk about a
little bit is this
just kind of like little nights and
weekends thing that up and hacking on
called bundle sync so the basic idea so
JavaScript client-side bundles are
gigantic they keep getting bigger
because web pack makes it too easy to
depend on things so as these get bigger
they become much more problematic to
reload over and over and over again
whenever something even minor changes
and because the bundles are just a bunch
of the same pack and just packed
together all the time it's sort of an
ideal case for rabbin actually because
if you make minor changes to your bundle
it would actually only change a few
hashes and a big rabbit piece so I
started writing this thing that would
load up in the browser and then
connection to sync the bundle after that
so after you get gotten at once you can
always just resync those parts from the
reven bundle this has been a very
interesting use case for I feel B
because this little piece of code has to
load before anything else can load in
the page that you're syncing and so it
actually like has an insane amount of
constraints on the size that it can be
so I haven't been able to use like any
of the libraries that we've ever written
in JavaScript right it'll be because all
of them are too big for a thing that you
would load before your actual code and
I've kind of compressed all of these
ideas down into these like really tiny
libraries for just just to get the
syncing piece up and running and I've
been working with CloudFlare workers
actually to do the EM storage and peace
because then all of the parts that are
in that ramen bundle are also edge
cached and all of the syncing logic is
also on the edge so you don't lose any
of that
nice CDN hang stuff because Consular has
this nice worker thing but also cleft
where workers have like no debugging
it's like it either works or it doesn't
and if you want to debug something you
have to like put it in the response body
so that's been really fun to work with
development but um it's it's been really
illuminating for me just in that we have
a lot of separations that are conceptual
in a lot of our documentation and then
we've realized love those separations in
code and then coming at it from a
completely different angle we don't have
that code that shows the separations
figuring out where those different
pieces really belong has been really
really interesting like I've had to
actually go and rent a new block format
that is like compressed and doesn't
require a bunch of
doesn't require any external hash
functions and stuff like that and it's
interesting how well a lot of the
conceptual layers hold up even when you
don't have our kind of code layers so
that's been really great learning a lot
from that and that's it from my update
okay Rob asked what pack means pack is a
project Advisory Committee that's what
it stands for so the idea of these these
packs is that we gather the internal
stakeholders like in protocol labs to
the other projects essentially and those
project leads we have a much more
structured environment for us like
updating them and getting their feedback
because as these projects grow you can't
just like understand everything that's
going on in every project like de vivre
did that for a long time and I it kind
of grew up in crazy I think for reading
every email ever about every issue but
also eventually these project that this
first one is only the internal people
but eventually we're gonna bring in
external advisors as well so people from
other outside projects other people that
are just people that we would like to
get advice from indice States in general
so one of the items and the first one is
who should be invited that that's I hope
I'm good enough description of what's
going on there any other questions about
that cool all right cool thanks Steven I
guess as every week you don't have any
items for iconi alright so yeah so is
there so it did anyone put anything on
the agenda I can't see anything but you
can just also raise your hand and just
bring something up slash Steven have you
had a chance to look at any of those
because I briefly look to them I have
not had a chance to read them yet okay
yes I know yeah they're crazy they're
not more text than the original it's
just literally that split up into a
bunch of smaller then I just need to
like load back in all of
I feel these date everything yet
actually I should do this before
tomorrow no wins the back - next week
yes I definitely just before next week
so I've moved back in all this day
before yeah so to Eric's point in
scheduling just a call for us to iterate
on the last two points I'd like to go to
a car we actually knock through kind of
all the specs in that repo because
there's a bunch of older ones that we
should just look at and just decide to
merge or not because there's like stuff
in there for dag peepee that like we're
not changing it we should probably just
mark it and then yeah and like because
it does get a bit confusing trying to
build on top because there's so many oh
yeah but I get like I guess I would so I
would probably do it first do an async
run through the specs so I can totally
do it I bet he's so busy it upon me of a
comment saying okay like this is what I
think should happen and then we can just
quickly decide okay you do we don't do
it emerge that be chosen whatever I
think and so so I guess they're
certainly specs where we need to should
do in sync and just like paying things
out and get it done get emerged I think
there's a few other Piazza regions can
do it as synchronous Vegas look like
would if we did it Wednesday morning for
me which is evening for most of you I
think probably Thursday morning rod what
rod can't be and and what if we if we do
it for example like next week instead of
this media like
quickly after this meeting or like I
know that works for me I think that'd be
bad because they because I guess it
would be important to busy all of us are
in the call so that's that's the best
idea I was trying to knock it out this
week but I actually had you have a lot
of stuff on my plate this week so um
that'll give us plenty of time to do
anything review everything it's there
and then we can be able top to bottom
like we knocked them cool yeah I think
might benefit from like at least two
sessions like we want to land all of the
smallish ones that are out now smallish
but impactful and then like the backlog
grooming I think we should make maybe a
separate day so we go into that one
fresh exhaust that's I would love to get
us down to inbox zero on issues and PRS
I dislike that number being anything
more than absolutely none I'm sure
that's gonna take a lot of work but it
would be nice to have a shortlist at the
start of such a gathering time also of
like what are some different ways that
we can take things that are good content
or good earlier brainstorming and
acknowledge them but then get them out
of the inbox like there's a whole bunch
of that stuff that I imagine maybe we
could pivot into files in the design
history or like maybe we can do the
thing where we do it get merged where we
do us ours flags like stays in history
that doesn't contribute to the deafening
Lord or etc because there is there's
definitely lots of stuff out there
that's like that that's good ideas I
just don't want it to be acting like
it's in an inbox when it's obviously not
being acted yeah very very talking
issues were yes it's the number that
shows up on those top tabs on github its
acting so issues can be moved to a
separate notice repo I think really have
one which is specific events are not
being acted on
yeah for a question it closed yeah I
just flat-out hate github issues for
many many reasons
yeah night thought threaded and all that
kind of crappy up but we don't have a
better solution to them unfortunately
like we can certainly spin up a discord
server yeah I noticed quite sorry I
discuss
disgust I've heard we have once I'm
there I also think when in doubt putting
that content in a summary file and
putting it in like some sort of mystery
repo directory is actually way way
better because you can link to those
like you can link to yeah it makes it
harder to actually like revive a
discussion although honestly it's this
bit of hardships a new issue and link to
the old discussions yes yes like that's
why I personally fan closing issues like
thatwe say like this is a good idea it's
a good discussion because like if you
want making you discussion started you
want to meet like the old ones also good
yeah I mean we have like a bunch of spec
refining issues from Nicola and 2016
that we can probably just close out this
way just being stale I mean they're
stale at this point like they're yeah
there's not we would need to to create
anyone in order to okay cool yeah I mean
a lot of clearing out these issues we
can just do like we don't need to have
them you do about that but it's Beck's
required before discussion either cool
do you ever want to feel better about
your EC trackers just take this one
[Laughter]
alright yeah okay if that's all then I
lost the meeting and see everyone next
week to the PR issue closing session I
hate